Appear weak when you are strong, and strong when you are weak.
The supreme art of war is to subdue the enemy without fighting.
If you know the enemy and know yourself, you need not fear the result of a hundred battles.
Let your plans be dark and impenetrable as night, and when you move, fall like a thunderbolt.
Supreme excellence consists of breaking the enemy's resistance without fighting.
All warfare is based on deception.
When we are able to attack, we must seem unable.
When using our forces, we must appear inactive.
When we are near, we must make the enemy believe we are far away. When far away, we must make him believe we are near.
In the midst of chaos, there is also opportunity.
Victorious warriors win first and then go to war, while defeated warriors go to war first and then seek to win.
If your enemy is secure at all points, be prepared for him.
If he is in superior strength, evade him.
If your opponent is temperamental, seek to irritate him.
Pretend to be weak, that he may grow arrogant.
If he is taking his ease, give him no rest.
If his forces are united, separate them.
If sovereign and subject are in accord, put division between them.
Attack him where he is unprepared, appear where you are not expected.
The greatest victory is that which requires no battle.
To know your enemy, you must become your enemy.
There is no instance of a nation benefitting from prolonged warfare.
He will win who knows when to fight and when not to fight.
He will win who knows how to handle both superior and inferior forces.
He will win whose army is animated by the same spirit throughout all its ranks.
He will win who, prepared himself, waits to take the enemy unprepared.
He will win who has military capacity and is not interfered with by the sovereign.
Even the finest sword plunged into salt water will eventually rust.
Move swift as the Wind and closely-formed as the Wood.
Attack like the Fire and be still as the Mountain.
Opportunities multiply as they are seized.
When the enemy is relaxed, make them toil.
When full, starve them.
When settled, make them move.
So in war, the way is to avoid what is strong, and strike at what is weak.
When strong, avoid them.
If of high morale, depress them.
Seem humble to fill them with conceit.
If at ease, exhaust them.
If united, separate them.
Attack their weaknesses.
Emerge to their surprise.